---
layout: page
title: Join
---

The Kemper Lab strives for an interdisciplinary, team-based approach to science. We are interested in recruiting trainees with backgrounds in physics, mathematics, and/or computing.

**We wholeheartedly believe that the more diverse our lab members are - both scientifically and in terms of life experiences - the more we will learn more from each other, and the better our science. Therefore, we welcome lab members regardless of race, religion, gender identification, sexual orientation, age, or disability status.**

We are actively recruiting new members. If you're interested in joining, please see instructions below.

## Undergraduate students

Send Lex an email (akemper at ncsu dot edu) with a short description of your interest in the lab, research experience (if any), goals, and potential time commitment. Please include the phrase: "Kemper Lab Application" in the subject of your email. Students who can commit to an average of at least 10 hours per week will be considered.

## Graduate students

Any graduate student joining will be contingent upon funding either being available or likely in the near future.  This is never guaranteed.

<!--We are currently looking for a student in the area of non-equilibrium many body theory!!!

#See the <a href="https://www.physics.ncsu.edu/graduate/">Graduate Programs website</a> for information about applying to the NC State Physics Department. Admitted students may send Lex an email (akemper at ncsu dot edu) with a short description of your scientific background, research experience, goals, and interest in the lab. Please include the phrase: "Kemper Lab Application" in the subject of your email.
-->

## Postdoctoral scholars

Please send (1) cover letter that includes the names and contacts for three references and a short statement of research interests, (2) a current CV to (akemper at ncsu dot edu).
